[UXIT-1706] Enhance Clarity and Consistency in ‘The Blockchain’ Section (#2340)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: basics/the-blockchain/actors.md

4. During block validation, the state recorded by the `StoragePowerActor` is checked.
5. Using this state, the consensus mechanism rewards storage providers with the most power by awarding blocks, and the [`RewardActor`](actors.md#rewardactor) sends FIL as a reward.

### Blocks

Each block in the Filecoin chain contains:

- Inline data such as the current block height.
- A pointer to the current state tree.
- A pointer to the set of messages that, when applied to the network, generated the current state tree.

### State tree

The _state tree_ is a [Merkle Directed Acyclic Graph (Merkle DAG)](../../reference/general/glossary.md#merkle-directed-acyclic-graph). It maps the relationships between actors and their states. Nodes in the state tree store:

- Information about actors, including FIL balances and nonces.
- Links (CIDs) pointing to actor state data.

The state tree is updated by messages, which trigger state transitions and ensure it reflects the latest state of the network.

### Messages

Messages are the instructions actors use to interact with each other. These are also represented in a Merkle DAG. Nodes in the messages may contain:

- The actor the message was sent to.

> - The actor sending the message.

Reviewer: The past tense is more accurate as the message is sent before it is accepted by the network.

> - The method to call on the receiving actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The method to call on the target actor.
```
Receiving suggests that there is a movement of tokens and not just that an actor may perform an action. 

Think of an actor as a serverless function, you target the function of a particular serverless function not have it receive a method call.

- A cryptographic signature for verification.
- The amount of FIL transferred between actors.

### Actor code

> Actor code defines what an actor does and is separated into methods. Messages specify which methods to call and any input parameters. Actor code interacts with a _runtime_ object, which provides network information like the current epoch or cryptographic validations. Actors must pay a _gas fee_ (in FIL) for executing operations. Each actor has:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actor code defines what an actor does and is separated into methods. Messages specify which methods of an actor to call and any input parameters. Actor code interacts with a _runtime_ object, which provides network information like the current epoch, cryptographic signatures, and proof validations. Actors must pay a _gas fee_ (in FIL) for executing operations. Each actor has:
```
Clarifying whose methods and cryptographic validations seemed to be a typo.

- A nonce tracking the number of messages it has sent.

### Types of built-in actors

The 11 types of built-in actors are:

- [CronActor](actors.md#cronactor)
- [InitActor](actors.md#initactor)
- [AccountActor](actors.md#accountactor)
- [RewardActor](actors.md#rewardactor)
- [StorageMarketActor](actors.md#storagemarketactor)
- [StorageMinerActor](actors.md#storagemineractor)
- [MultisigActor](actors.md#multisigactor)
- [PaymentChannelActor](actors.md#paymentchannelactor)
- [StoragePowerActor](actors.md#storagepoweractor)
- [VerifiedRegistryActor](actors.md#verifiedregistryactor)
- [SystemActor](actors.md#systemactor)

#### CronActor

The `CronActor` sends messages to the `StoragePowerActor` and `StorageMarketActor` at the end of each epoch. These messages ensure internal states are updated and deferred events are processed. This actor is instantiated in the genesis block and interacts directly with the FVM.

#### InitActor

The `InitActor` initializes new actors on the Filecoin network. It maps public keys and temporary actor addresses to canonical ID addresses. This actor is instantiated in the genesis block and interacts directly with the FVM.

#### AccountActor

> The `AccountActor` manages user accounts by updating the state tree with new actor addresses. It interacts directly with the FVM.

Reviewer: It doesn't `manage` user accounts, it only creates them.

#### RewardActor

> The `RewardActor` distributes rewards to miner actors based on their contributions. Rewards are locked for vesting, and values are updated at the end of each epoch. This actor interacts directly with the FVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `RewardActor` distributes rewards to storage provider actors based on their contributions. Rewards are locked for vesting, and values are updated at the end of each epoch. This actor interacts directly with the FVM.
```

#### StorageMarketActor

> The `StorageMarketActor` processes and manages on-chain deals. It tracks storage deals and the locked balances of both clients and storage providers. When a deal is posted, it ensures both parties have sufficient collateral before including the deal on-chain. Collateral is returned when deals are successfully completed. This actor does not interact directly with the FVM.

Reviewer: As far as I am aware the builtin StorageMarketActor is not used for any of the storage deals that occur on the network currently. We should figure out if it should be marked as deprecated or removed. It certainly still exists in the code base but it is not being used as described here and won't be again from my understanding.

#### StorageMinerActor

> The `StorageMinerActor` manages storage mining operations and proof collection. It ensures miners can effectively commit storage and handles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `StorageMinerActor` manages storage provider operations and proof collection. It ensures storage providers can effectively commit storage and handles:
```
The actor code still contains the term Miner but it should be changed to StorageProviderActor at some point in line with [FIP0018](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0018.md).

- Committing new storage.
- Continuously proving storage.
- Declaring and recovering from storage faults.

This actor does not directly interact with the FVM.

#### MultisigActor

The `MultisigActor` facilitates Filecoin wallet operations and transactions involving up to 256 signers. This actor does not directly interact with the FVM.

#### PaymentChannelActor

The `PaymentChannelActor` enables off-chain microtransactions for Filecoin dApps. It manages uni-directional payment channels, allowing transactions to be reconciled on-chain with minimal overhead. This actor does not directly interact with the FVM.

#### StoragePowerActor

> The `StoragePowerActor` tracks the storage power of miners and determines block rewards based on proportional allocations. It creates `StorageMinerActor` instances and does not directly interact with the FVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `StoragePowerActor` tracks the storage power of storage providers and determines block rewards based on proportional allocations. It creates `StorageMinerActor` instances and does not directly interact with the FVM.
```
